Durban - As the annual sardine run got underway in KwaZulu-Natal, MEC for Economic Development, Mike Mabuyakhulu, has warned bathers to exercise caution. Shark nets have been removed from most beaches to prevent predators such as sharks and dolphins getting caught in the nets while feeding on the fish. "Currently shark safety gear has been removed between Salt Rock on the north coast and Port Edward on the south including Durban," said Mabuyakhulu, who viewed the shoal on Tuesday. The public has been asked to consult with lifeguards on duty to determine if it was safe to swim. Every year the sardine run, with shoals that can get up to 20-30km long, attracts thousands of local and international tourists, which provides a boost to the province's economy. The MEC said there has been "intensive" sardine activity between Margate and Ramsgate. "It attracts lots of people who spend money here and occupy our hotels... The Sharks Board holds symposiums locally and also markets the run internationally during tourism events," said Mabuyakhulu. Locals enjoy this period, apart from viewing the shoals; they also make money by selling sardines. The Sardine Run also gives people an opportunity to see sea creatures such as the Great White Sharks, Common Dolphins, and Cape Gannets that pursue the shoals northwards along the east coast of South Africa. There are several vantage points on the 120 km South Coast coastline. The South Coast also has world class diving sites, the Aliwal Shoal being one of them. The Natal Sharks Board has estimated that over 20 000 dolphins follow the annual sardine run. During the Sardine Run, Humpback Whales and Southern Right Whales are present but have not been observed feeding on sardines. These whales migrate north to give birth and they mate off the KwaZulu-Natal coast. In South Africa, there is a large sardine fishery off the Western Cape coast and approximately 100 000 tonnes are caught annually. Off the Eastern Cape coast, the annual catch drops to about 7 700 tones whilst only up to a maximum of 700 tones is caught in KwaZulu-Natal. The Natal Sharks Board offers a Sardine Run Hotline 083 913 9495.