Mbombela - Many aspiring nurses in Mpumalanga province are unemployable because they are under-qualified, says provincial Health Department spokesman Dumisani Mlangeni. Mlangeni said people who have studied nursing were wondering why they were not getting jobs when the department had a shortage of nurses. "We are looking for professional nurses, while many people in the province have studied to become auxiliary or assistant nurses. You will never find a professional nurse being unemployed," said Mlangeni. He said many young people were not aware of the difference between the two fields of nursing. He said the difference was that professional nurses study up to four years while auxiliary nurses study less than that. "We urge all the youth who have already studied for other nursing courses to upgrade and become professional nurses. Every year, our department is offering opportunities for people who want to study as professional nurses," said Mlangeni. The spokesman said the province currently had more than 4 000 professional nurses, which was not enough. "The aim of the department is to double the number of professional nurses. We are, however, targeting young people from rural areas who wish to become professional nurses. We prefer them because most of the professional nurses in the province are reluctant to offer their services at rural areas," said Mlangeni. He added that investing in young people from rural areas was vital because after the training, they would go back to their communities and offer their services. "They know the challenges facing their people in their communities, therefore, they will be offered a chance to make a difference," he said. Dimakatso Sedibe, from Marite village outside Hazyview, said she studied auxiliary nursing four years ago, but was unable to get a job. "When I enrolled back then, I was not aware that the department and other institutions were looking for professional nurses. I discovered it late that I should have studied professional nursing," said Sedibe. She said she had already enrolled for a professional nursing course in order to upgrade her qualifications.