Germiston - One would be forgiven for mistakenly thinking they were walking into an upmarket government office park when entering the new Germiston Hospital. The R498 million new state-of-the art Germiston Hospital, which was opened by Gauteng Premier Nomvula Mokonyane on Monday, was also renamed after struggle heroine Bertha Gxowa, who worked tirelessly for progress in South Africa. A number of improvements have been made to the new hospital, which was first opened 100 years ago. These include an increased number of beds from 149 to 300 and the staff from 450 to 1 062. Among the services to be offered are a 24-hour casualty, radiology, theatre, family and internal medicine, paediatric unit, male medical circumcision, ante natal clinic, dental services as well as reproductive health, including obstetrics and gynaecology. Unveiling the plaque of the hospital, Mokonyane said the renaming of the building means that everybody throughout the world will know that the hospital is named after the stalwarts, who served in several committees, including health. "Issues of health of people were close to the heart of Mam' Gxowa. We must pay tribute to a heroine like her through our conduct and treasure the sacrifices they've made," said Mokonyane. She said the provincial government would continue with its programme of action to ensure that health and wellness were prioritised. "With this new institution, we've got a calabash of hope and better life." Gauteng Health and Social Development MEC, Ntombi Mekgwe, noted that the building was climate change compliant and ready for the National Health Insurance (NHI). "Those who say NHI will not work, we will prove them wrong. We are ready... the facility will provide a service of high standard. If you are on medical aid, you can also come to the hospital as we want to use this facility as a benchmark," Mekgwe said. Hospital CEO Christina Mndaweni said the new building will also go hand in hand with the change in staff attitudes. "We must reduce the number of complaints. How our staff cares for our customers is very important." Struggle veteran and Member of Parliament, Sophie De Bryun, challenged the hospital board to ensure that they maintained good standards. "Let's try to keep things the way we found [them]. Bertha admired and appreciated cleanliness and beauty." Gxowa's granddaughter, Ntombi Khumalo thanked the Gauteng government for renaming the hospital after her grandmother, saying it is part of a healing process. "She believed that it was her duty to work for the community and see the poor benefit from this establishment and seeing disciplined staff working in the hospital would make her happy," said Khumalo.