Cape Town - The Department of Basic Education says government's collaborative project dubbed "Quality Learning and Teaching Campaign (QLTC)" is on track. The campaign, largely placed under provincial education MECs, was a direct response to President Jacob Zuma's call to have teachers in the classroom on time and for each learner to have a textbook. Its primary objective is to "protect the delivery of quality teaching and learning". It also seeks to monitor the code of conduct of teachers and learners, learner performance and achievement and the provision of resources. It will also monitor the roll-out of the curriculum and teacher development plans. On Tuesday, Project Director Tula Nkomo made a presentation on the progress of the programme to Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Basic Education. So far, he said, the ANC's Lekgotla, held in July, endorsed the project as a vehicle towards mobilising society on education. In North West, the provincial Department of Education had earmarked R2.4 million for the campaign. North West Education MEC Raymond Elisha said they had also convened inclusive stakeholder QLTC summits to address teacher and learner absenteeism. He said during a provincial senior management meeting, it was resolved that the campaign would now be part of directorate programmes. In the Northern Cape, Nkomo said QLTC had been launched in every school and the province had partnered with the South African Local Government Association (Salga) to include the programme in their Councilor Training Programme. He said that the provincial government there was also using billboards to raise awareness on QLTC messages. In the Western Cape, Nkomo said the Education Department was working on a listening campaign for teachers. He said the province had a programme to recognise and give incentives to improving underperforming schools. In the Eastern Cape, the Department of Education had launched QLTC in all its 23 districts, while Education MEC Mandla Makupula had led QLTC stakeholder consultative meetings and informed communities on the state of the education system in the province and the need to support the campaign's objectives. Among their challenges, Nkomo said the campaign needed more funding to sustain administrate activities and its operations.