Mthatha - President Jacob Zuma swapped his suit for a set of overalls during the launch of a rural development initiative in the Eastern Cape this weekend. Zuma, who is the chairperson of the Masibambisane Rural Development Initiative (MRDI), was joined by a number of top-ranking government officials for the provincial launch of the initiative at the Qumbu Technical High School in Qumbu, outside Mthatha. "We're here today to launch an apolitical programme which aims to fight hunger amongst our people. This is a programme for the people, by the people," said Zuma. The initiative, which aims to alleviate poverty and fight hunger in some of the country's poorest rural areas, was established by Zuma and a business friend of his in his hometown of Nkandla in rural KwaZulu-Natal earlier this year. He said between the two of them, they bought 32 cattle and five tractors to capacitate the struggling community in farming the wide open land. "The programme has flourished in Nkandla, thanks to local government and the private sector. To date, we have more than 20 tractors that have been donated, with a dairy currently being built," said Zuma. He stressed the importance of the involvement of the private sector in ensuring that the programme's aims were fulfilled. "We want this programme to be implemented across the country so we can fight hunger in all corners of South Africa. In order to do this, we need business to invest in this initiative so we can cut hunger to zero." Zuma was joined by business people and government top brass, including Water Affairs Minister Edna Molewa, Public Works Minister Thembelani Nxesi, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson, Eastern Cape Premier Noxolo Kiviet and Old Mutual CEO Kuseni Dlamini. The ministers committed themselves to assisting the initiative, including having roads in the area repaired, providing water tanks, building water drainage systems and water treatment systems, and providing seed and fencing for some of the farms. Old Mutual's Dlamini said business also needed to get involved in similar initiatives if they were to succeed. "We have to create favourable conditions in our rural communities through investments of this nature. We must therefore as business find ways of maximising economic growth potential in these areas," said Dlamini. Zuma announced that nine farmers from the community would also get a chance to attend an agricultural capacity-building exercise in Canada. He also donated goats to a local community and promised to deliver more through the programme.