Durban - Public servants in KwaZulu-Natal have been celebrated for completing their training under the Adult Education and Training Literacy programme. KZN Premier Zweli Mkhize was joined by other MECs to congratulate government employees at an awards ceremony held at the Woodburn Stadium in Pietermaritzburg on Tuesday. This annual event is organised to coincide with the United Nations endorsed Adult Learners' Week, which is observed every September. The event highlights and acknowledges the achievements of public servants who are currently on the Adult Education and Training Programme in their respective departments. Thousands of people attended the ceremony and were also encouraged and inspired to take up the challenge of lifelong learning. Some of the learners who have benefitted from the programme testified to how their lives have been changed by the opportunity to learn. One learner described how he was employed as a cleaner in one of the government departments, but through the training, he is now a qualified plumber. The day also doubled as the official launch of the Citizen's Charter, with the unveiling of a plaque by Mkhize. The Citizen's Charter spells out what services will be provided and how they will be provided, the emphasis being on improving efficiency and effectiveness of the ways in which services are delivered. "Democracy means being able to choose what is good and right for you, your neighbours and your entire country. But being unable to read for yourself will inhibit your ability to make these choices," said Mkhize. "You can't make choices if you cannot decipher and understand information for yourself. Through learning and improvement of skills, we will get to discover our true potential to put into action our talents," he added. Mkhize told the crowd they must remember the teachings of liberation icon John Langalibalele Dube, which emphasized the need to train the mind, the hand and the heart. "You will find some civil servants who have the training of the mind and hand but seriously lacking in the training of the heart manifested by the harsh way [in which] they deal with members of the public when they seek government services," said Mkhize. Education MEC Senzo Mchunu said major strides have been made in improving literacy in South Africa and KwaZulu-Natal in particular. Mchunu said his department has embarked on the "Get Caught Reading" campaign as an intervention to turn the tide on the reading crisis in primary schools. - BuaNews