Pretoria - At least 40 training workshops on energy management systems have been completed nationwide as a result of the implementation of the Industrial Energy Efficiency (IEE) project, which aims to promote industrial energy efficiency. Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said the workshops have been conducted countrywide and were attended by 900 people, while currently there are seven medium and large companies pioneering the implementation of energy management systems within their operations. "The key value proposition of the project is to contribute to sustainable transformation of the way energy is used in South Africa. The project further supports national energy security, promotes job creation and reduces carbon dioxide emissions. "It also facilitates the implementation of the new South African Energy Management Standard, ISO50001, and introduces for the first time a systems optimisation approach for South African industry," said Davies. Introduced last year, the project is a collaborative initiative between the South African government represented by the Departments of Trade and Industry and Energy, and international partners, the Swiss Secretariat for Economic Affairs and the UK Department for International Development (DFID). The project offers opportunities to improve the competitiveness as well as the strengthening of South African companies while supporting productivity increases and reducing production costs as well as taking advantage of new opportunities in the green economy. Davies added that rising electricity and fuel prices and increasing commitments to reduce carbon emissions were increasing the need for the manufacturing sector to become more energy efficient. "In order to cope with a number of serious challenges, including the rapidly escalating price of raw materials and of energy and the recent global economic and financial crises, enterprises need to strengthen their capacity to compete, increase productivity and reduce production costs. "Effective energy management practices can contribute significantly to cost savings and competitiveness improvement. It is also a crucial climate change mitigation measure." Davies was speaking on Tuesday at an international energy management and optimisation seminar that was hosted by the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) on the side lines of COP17 in Durban. The formal launch of the project will be held tonight in Durban.