Pretoria - Bafana Bafana will get back to their winning ways starting with the upcoming 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers against Ethiopia and Botswana, says Bafana goalkeeper Darren Keet. Keet is in the squad that will play three back to back matches, including an international friendly against Gabon. "There is a very positive vibe and mood in the camp; everyone is looking forward to the upcoming games. We need to win the home game first, get to Botswana and win as well, this will get us back to a rhythm of winning," he said. Keet has enjoyed his time in the Bafana squad this week and is learning a lot from the more-experienced Itumeleng Khune. "For me it's an honour to be called up, and to be part of the mix. I know I am competing with great goalkeepers in this country in Itumeleng Khune and Wayne Sandilands, but that is a healthy competition and that is how one learns. "I am young and I believe the experience I am getting here will come in handy in the near future," said 22 year-old Belgium-based keeper. His words were echoed by Holland-based Thulani Serero, who also believes South Africa will do well in the qualifiers. "This is a tough road we will be travelling, but I believe we have a very good team to come out victorious. Things have been going according to plan in camp, and there's not much pressure because every player know what is expected of them. "Every game we play is difficult, but we have to go there with a winning mentality," said Serero who was also excited about the inclusion of striker Siyabonga Nomvethe is in the squad. "It's good to play with experienced players like Nomvethe, we can all learn a lot from him. He has done well this season for his team and we hope it will rub off onto the national team," he said. Meanwhile, Eleazar Rodgers was also expected in the Bafana camp last night, Thursday along with May Mahlangu. Rodgers joins the national team after the National First Division play-offs were suspended. The striker was in the original team announced by head coach Pitso Mosimane, but could not make it to camp as his club requested that he help them with the play-offs.