Pretoria - The recent spate of police killings in South Africa was a direct threat to the country's hard-won constitutional democracy, Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa said on Friday. Speaking at a summit against police killings in Boksburg, Mthethwa called on society to help the police end the killings, which he described as a threat that should not be taken lightly. The summit was an affirmation of the country's stance against any "mauling" of law enforcement agencies. At least 48 police officers have been killed nationally since the beginning of the year, with Gauteng being the worst affected province, followed by KwaZulu-Natal. "We are saying enough now! One police life lost is one too many. We need to do something about it, collectively and as individuals. As the first step, as experts gathered at this summit, we shall be drawing from your expertise and support in curbing this scourge," Mthethwa said. He said since 1999, some of the approaches and initiatives that have been implemented by the SAPS, include the establishment of a Multi-Disciplinary Committee to address attacks on police members. The Directorate for Police Safety was also established within the Crime Prevention Division in 2001. It was tasked with identifying and implementing measures to prevent attacks on and the killing of police officials. On Friday, Mthethwa said high levels of murder of police officials affected the psyche of police. "These deaths lead to uncertainty and feelings of insecurity within the police. In some cases off-duty police officers are known and specifically targeted even when off-duty." He added that government was committed to fighting crime, not just police killings. Work was also underway to strengthen and where appropriate, formalise relationships with various stakeholders, with a view of attracting the diverse skills which may not necessarily be available within SAPS. This effort involved partnerships with communities, civil society, business and other government departments. "We are also confronting a broad range of challenges on issues like CPFs, volunteer programmes, alignment of plans and activities. In all these, police should take the lead in keeping with their Constitutional mandate of honest, dedicated, selfless sacrifice and service to society."