Pretoria - "A revolutionary fighter who devoted his entire life to the struggle for freedom and democracy" and "outstanding fighter for liberation" are just some of the words used to pay tribute to Kader Asmal. "[Kader Asmal was] an outstanding fighter for the liberation of South Africa and one of the architects of our democracy. Comrade Kader had a keen intellect, a fierce loyalty to principle and a firm and sustained commitment to serve the people of South Africa," former President Thabo Mbeki said. Asmal passed away at the age of 76 at the Constantia Medi Clinic in Cape Town on Wednesday afternoon. According to his family, he was admitted to the hospital last Friday for treatment of a stomach ailment. "He was making reasonable progress in a general ward... up until he suffered a serious heart attack," said the family in a statement. Details of a public memorial service will be communicated in the next few days once all the necessary consultations and arrangements have been made. Mbeki described Asmal as someone who could always be depended on, adding that his questioning mind would be missed. "South Africa has indeed lost one of its outstanding sons! It is no exaggeration to state that Prof Asmal's passing represents a challenge to our youth, the inheritors of tomorrow." ANC spokesperson Jackson Mthembu said Asmal's immesearable contribution to the liberation of the country ensured that the ANC earned respect from the international community. "Comrade Kader, who was professor in institutions of higher learning, continued to raise the ANC flag high - deepening the understanding of the international community about the ANC and the South African struggle for freedom." After returning from exile in the 90s, Asmal served on South Africa's first democratically elected Cabinet under President Nelson Mandela as Minister of Water Affairs and Forestry and then under the Cabinet of Thabo Mbeki as Minister of Education from 1999 to 2004. "The ANC salutes the sacrifices made by Comrade Kader, his family and his generation for what they endured for us to enjoy democracy and freedom. Without sacrifices made by Comrade Kader's generation, we would still be experiencing colonial and apartheid oppression," said the ANC. Democratic Alliance leader Helen Zille said Asmal would be remembered for many things but particularly for his scholarship and his contribution to entrenching constitutionalism in South Africa. "Prof Asmal was far more than a politician. He represented the best of a generation of struggle heroes who made unimaginable sacrifices to realise a democratic South Africa. We will honour his memory by vigilantly guarding the constitution and by achieving the vision of a South Africa that offers the opportunity of a better life for all," said Zille. The Nelson Mandela Foundation's chief executive, Achmat Dangor, recalled the contents of a letter from Mandela to Asmal on his 75th birthday, stating that Asmal - while serving Cabinet - was often referred to as the "minister of all portfolios." "Although we did so in a humorous way, there was truth to it. Few people have the knowledge and experience to compare with you and you have become an expert on so many subjects that your wealth of knowledge is an asset to our movement and our country," read Mandela's letter to Asmal. The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) said Asmal's death has weakened democracy. "I had the pleasure of serving in Cabinet with Professor Asmal for ten years, and despite him being the Minister of Water Affairs, he soon became nicknamed the minister of all affairs, because he felt it to be his duty to read all Cabinet memoranda and to provide a contribution where ever he could. He set the standard of good work, competency and efficiency at Cabinet level," party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi said. The South African Transport and Allied Workers Union (SATAWU) said he was a "revolutionary fighter who devoted his entire life to the struggle for freedom and democracy, and [we] send our condolences to his family and all the thousands of South Africans who knew and loved him." The union described Asmal as a towering intellectual and a great champion of human rights. The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa said the former minister's immense contribution cannot be ignored. The South African Security Forces Union said Asmal believed that unless soldiers' rights were respected and protected, soldiers would not be able to respect and protect civilian rights. "His immense and superior intellectualism enabled him to make a lasting contribution in the sphere of the battle of ideas," said the National Union of Mineworkers. Cricket SA said its flags will fly at half-mast today as a sign of respect for Asmal, while adding that the former minister had a passionate love for sport, particularly cricket. "Perhaps his greatest contribution was the work he did with the then Minister of Finance Trevor Manuel to recognise sports that had credible development programmes and allow them to get tax rebates so that the money could be ploughed back into amateur and grassroots level sport. "He seldom, if ever, missed a game involving the Proteas at Newlands, particularly when it came to Test matches and we have always valued the wonderful support he has given us," CSA CEO Gerald Majola said. US ambassador Donald Gips said Asmal was a leader, visionary and mentor to South Africa. Family spokesperson Allan Taylor said details of a public memorial service will be communicated in the next few days once all the necessary consultations and arrangements have been made.