Johannesburg - The Gauteng Provincial Government has set aside R30.6 billion of its total budget of R69.311 billion to go towards infrastructure development, including the building of new health facilities. Briefing reporters before presenting the Provincial Budget in the Provincial Legislature on Tuesday, Finance MEC Mandla Nkomfe said the money would be spent over the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). "This is a combination of both the provincial equitable share and conditional grant funding," Nkomfe said. In the 2012/13 financial year, R1.4 billion has been made available for the construction of new health facilities as well as the maintenance of existing structures. Of this amount R850 million will go towards maintaining health facilities with the balance going to renovations at the GaRankuwa, SG Lourens, Bona Lesedi and Ann Latsky nursing colleges. New hospitals such as Natalspruit and Zola will get R232.9 million, while R214 million will be spent on equipment for both hospitals as well as the Berth Gxowa hospital. Over the 2012 MTEF, the Department of Health will receive R6.1 billion for the implementation of its infrastructure programme. "Gauteng is committed to eliminating wasteful expenditure in infrastructure spending which generally emanates from cost escalations, project scope creep, lack of effective planning and weak project management," said Nkomfe. Additionally, R1 billion will be spent over the MTEF for the upgrading of the Voortrekker Road R55, Malibongwe Road K154, William Nicol, Leondale Road R103, Adcock Road and the Mamelodi/ Hans Strydom intersection. Nkomfe said roads infrastructure played a significant role towards economic growth, job creation, and poverty alleviation in the province. The provincial government will spend a further R68.8 million for the construction of walkways and bicycle lanes. However, Nkomfe warned that departments that have not adequately planned for infrastructure projects will not be granted funds. "Incapacity and under spending in infrastructure projects deprives communities of essential amenities," said Nkomfe.