Pretoria - The Transport Department says no final decision has been taken with regard to the proposed toll tariffs on Gauteng's freeways. The department was reacting to media reports which claimed on Monday that the proposed toll tariff of 66c/km will more than likely not change. Transport Director-General and Chairperson of the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project (GFIP) Toll Steering Committee, George Mahlalela, said media reports based the" inaccurate claims" on the Department of Transport's steering committee report. The report was sent out to various organisations that had made public proposals on the toll fees. "We wish to re-iterate that no decision has been made on the Gauteng toll tariffs. The tariffs will be announced by Transport Minister Sibusiso Ndebele in due course, after studying the final recommendations of the Steering Committee as well as consultation with the Political Oversight Committee," Mahlalela said in a statement issued by the department. The Steering Committee, announced by Ndebele to make recommendations on the proposed toll tariff of 66c/km, had not completed its report and will be meeting again with stakeholders on 30 June, he said. "It was made clear right at the outset that the principle of tolling has been accepted, and that the matter under review is the proposed tariff of 66c/km. Therefore, this type of reporting by certain sections of the media is totally mischievous." He said comments and proposals received from organised formations and civil society had been overwhelming, with the initial deadline of 30 April 2011 for submission of the report having to be shifted. With the majority of South Africans having taken the Easter break, the Steering Committee had to reschedule its follow-up engagement and consultation with stakeholders. Mahlalela added that the Gauteng toll tariffs, which have attracted an outcry from a wide range of stakeholders, have to be dealt with thoroughly and in a manner that addresses the concerns raised during consultations. It was of importance that the process "retains its integrity and that the outcome reflects the honest engagement we have had with stakeholders across the spectrum." "In the interest of all road users, we cannot rush into hasty decisions on the e-tolling issue as this might, however well-intended, undermine the very aim of having engaged with all the stakeholders," the department said.