Mbombela - After three years of planning, the Mpumalanga provincial government will hold its first auditions for the best cultural dance group who will win a recording contract. The Mpumalanga Indigenous Cultural Music and Dance Festival is a project that aims to unearth talent across the province. It is an initiative steered by the provincial Culture, Sport and Recreation Department. "This is the biggest music and dance competition to ever hit the province. The department will embark on a provincial search for the best acts in indigenous dance and music. The festival will give groups in these genres a chance to shine in the entertainment industry," said department spokeswoman Sibongile Nkosi. She said the festival, which is held under the theme "Revival of our African Norms, Values and Ubuntu through Cultural Music and Dance," not only aimed at exposing local talent, but also at promoting cultural tourism and celebrating cultural diversity in song and dance. The first auditions will be held in the Nkangala district, starting at the Lynville Hall in Emalahleni on July 2 and followed by GaMorwe Hall in Kameelsrivier near Siyabuswa on July 3. Next will be Gert Sibande district, starting at the Sasol Kinross Club in Secunda on July 9 and followed by Cassim Park in Ermelo on July 10. The auditions will end at the Ehlanzeni district, starting at the Mapulaneng College in Bushbuckridge on July 16 and followed by KaNyamazane Stadium in KaNyamazane outside Mbombela on July 17. All the auditions will be held between 9am and 2pm. Once the finalists have been chosen, an opening night will be held at Emalahleni Civic Centre in Emalahleni on September 11. The finals of the cultural dance leg will take place in Middelburg the following day with the cultural instrumental leg taking place on the 13th. Nkosi said all cultural music and dance groups who want to enter the competition can obtain forms at all municipalities. "After completing the registration forms, the entrants can submit them to any Mpumalanga local municipality of their choice," said Nkosi. Nkosi said closing dates would be announced soon. For enquiries interested groups can contact Nkosi on (013) 766-5372 or 082 492 4886 or download entry forms at www.mpumalanga.gov.za/dcsr.